DateStart	DateEnd	Type	Town	Country	Transport	Battle	Content
1914/08/25		Postcard	Ennogerah	Australia			Just have a chance to write a few lines at a small shop near the Camp. We had about four hours in Brisbane before going to Camp and had a good look round. Arrived in Camp about 6 p.m. and all the Gympie lads [Infantry] were placed in one tent [11 of us].  The Light Horse are nearly a mile from us. Of course it was my luck to be made Tent Orderly for the first day &emsp; getting the tucker and cleaning up. We have had nothing issued to us yet, so just as well I brought something.  There is no child&rsquo;s play in this camp &emsp; plenty of hard work &emsp; they mean business. We have a free hand at night so far and can write as we like.  Saw Herb as we were marching to the Camp. He was going back from work and I had only time to shake hands with him &emsp; could not leave the ranks. We will be under Captain Jackson. He has been appointed Captain of the Northern Rivers men and managed to get us in with him. Cannot write any more, am in a hurry. Will write more later on. Am feeling quite homesick. Had our feet examined today, teeth tomorrow I think.
1914/08/28		Postcard	Brisbane	Australia			"We are doing plenty of hard work, the officers here think we will be sent straight into the firing line when we get there and the men all seem eager for it. Taking things altogether the life here is not too bad. All the Gympie fellows are very decent and we stick together. Today we were issued with new rifles and bayonets, etc. but so far no uniform.  My regimental number is 692 but you need not put that in the address of any letters. We were advised to let our people know our number in case  - - - -.

Yesterday about 150,000 rounds of ball cartridges arrived, we will have to go through a stiff shooting test. Our feet are examined every day. We sit in a long row with bare feet sticking out. I will have to dress for parade now so hooray with best love from Ray."
1914/08/31		Postcard	Ennogerah	Australia			"On Saturday when we came into camp from drill at 12 o&rsquo;clock, we were told that the Commandant was very pleased with the progress made and had granted us a half holiday so the Gympie lads decided to go to the city. We had a good time in Brisbane and had tea at a fish shop.  Met Herb at about 7 p.m. and we all went to the Empire but the show was very poor. We have had issued to us two towels, two pairs under-pants, two singlets, two pairs socks, a sweater and a cake of soap. I think we will get boots in a day or two and other things.

A church parade was held but none of the Gympie lads attended. It happened to be a voluntary one! We are all keeping in pretty good health and hope you all are at home. Today is payday, we are to get paid every fortnight, this time we will get 11 days. I am only drawing half of mine and banking the rest. Love to all."
1914/09/03		Letter	Ennogerah	Australia			"Before I start allow me to inform you all that I am writing under difficulties in a crowded tent and plenty of noise so excuse any mistakes.  Wednesday was a big day for us [F Coy.].  We had the usual drill before breakfast and then after that meal, the whole company was vaccinated out in the open. The doctor put three dabs of Lymph on my arm and then scratched the skin over each till the blood came.  When it dried up [1/2 hour] a piece of lint was put over and stuck on with sticking plaster. That&rsquo;s the whole proceedure and so far it has not affected me, but very probably will in a few days time.

In the afternoon we were marched to the dentists and they were very rough on some of the fellows. There were three chairs occupied at a time and the mouth-maulers were kept busy. The chap who attended to mine said I had the best cared for teeth he had seen and called the other two dentists over to have a look at them.  He filled one of my back teeth and I had the jaw-ache the rest of the day and all last night. It is still a bit sore but not too bad. One of our fellows had three drawn and five filled and others were just as bad.  Last night I went to town and met Herb and put in the night with him till 10 p.m..  He is in good health and said he would be writing home soon. Today we all went to the range for musketry shooting and I think my shooting was satisfactory.  I was on ammunition guard and went to the range in a cart  while all the rest of the Coy. had to march &emsp; it is about a mile away. Over two thousand rounds of cartridges were used today. We were late getting home and I have only just had tea and a wash [after] and feel a bit tired.

I was just asking Capt. Jackson if there was any chance of getting home for a day and he said, ""No hope in the world"". It would be great, Dad, if you and Mum could get down just to have a look round. I often wish I was home for an hour or two to see you all. I have been wondering if that hamper is at Enoggera .  I could not get in tonight and do not know if it would be brought to the camp.

The cap Mum spoke of will be very acceptable and it is jolly  good of Miss Goodall to make it.  She is all-good.  I will write to her when I get it.  Do not take any notice of any rumour you hear about us leaving here. No one knows when it will be - although things seem to be getting pushed along as fast as possible here.  Just got word a while ago that we were to be inoculated tomorrow, by jove it&rsquo;s getting solid, we are like a lot of cattle, they will have us disabled before we leave here.  If we kick against it it means the kick out., so we will have to grin and bear it. Between 50 and 60 more men will be coming to Camp tonight &emsp; most of them for our Company, so we will be up to full strength.   Over 1050 letters have been posted from the Camp Y.M.C.A. since last Friday."
1914/09/07		Postcard	Ennogerah	Australia			It is Saturday morning and nearly all our Coy. are half dead from the effects of inoculation which took place yesterday afternoon. It is absolutely deadly. It is nothing for two or three fellows to drop clean out to it while on parade without any warning whatever. We are just beginning to feel the vaccination and were inoculated on the same arm and have to wear that useful member in a sling. It effects one all over-head, back and everywhere else.  Just after writing home on Thursday night, the parcel of eatables was brought to me. It was just the thing and the chaps in our tent were talking of writing to Mrs. Baker and telling her what they thought of her. Fancy that. We still have some cake and coconut ice left. Yesterday was pay-day although it should have been last Monday but the pay sheet was not ready. I started an account in the Commonwealth Savings Bank, there is a branch here in camp, and I have arranged for 2/6 (Two Shillings and Six Pence) a day to be placed to my credit while we are away. We do not know when we will leave here but think it will be soon. We will all be allowed to have our vote today.  Breakfast is ready so I will close with love to you all at home.
1914/09/27		Letter			Omrah		"""Omrah"", Sunday, September 27th. 1914.

It is now 5 o&rsquo;clock in the afternoon and have just heard that a mail will close at 6 p.m. so I must write a few lines. The boat is rocking some and I find it very hard to write.  We are now somewhere near Melbourne and I have not yet been seasick although I have been dreadfully homesick. We are having a fair time and the food is much better than we had at Enoggera. We have to sleep in hammocks and find it not too bad at all.  We do absolutely no work at all, there is no room for drill, although we have to muster up twice a day.  There is a dry canteen here and we can purchase all sorts of things just as we could at camp.  A great many of the fellows have been sick and most of the Gympie fellows included.  I have been lucky although there is plenty of time yet.  We get roused out 6 a.m. every morning, when we all roll up our hammocks and put them away, have a good wash or bath, and stroll about till breakfast time 8 a.m..  After that we read, sleep or stroll about till 11 a.m. when we are rolled up on parade for about half an hour.  Then it is a case of waiting for dinner-time.  We get plenty of liberty and can get right on the top deck.  The weather is very cold all the time.  Everyone wears their overcoat besides sweater and tunic.  At times the water is very choppy and the waves dash in on the lower deck.  The nights are grand, nice and moonlight and the water looks lovely.  All the Gympie lads generally keep together and have a sing-song before retiring for the night. 

We have not stopped since leaving Brisbane and are not sure at time of writing whether we will stop at Melbourne or not.  Anyway I think a mail will be put off there. We heard that our letters will be censored so I suppose that means we will have to be careful what we write.  No time to write more just at present, will close with best of love to all at home."
1916/08/13		Letter		France		Pozieres	"13th August 1916. 

Dear Herb,

It is the Sabbath day and for a wonder we are having a rest so I have time to write a few lines while reclining in my billet which at some remote period was a fowl-house.  But we are accustomed to all sorts of conditions now and learn to make the best of things however severe they may be.  For some time now we have been on the move from one village to another, rarely stopping at one place for more than a few days.  We see a great deal of the country but would enjoy it more if we had less to carry.  Of course you will have read much about the Australians being in the ""Big Push"" but the papers could not convey any idea of the real truth of such hellish fighting as we were in at Pozieres.  I have written to Mother three times since I came out and hope the letters arrived alright, giving her some sort of an account of things. Our fellows have fought marvellously well, gaining all their objectives but at a great cost and the casualty lists, if published in the Australian papers will be a great blow to the people.  Our Division [the 1st] which was the first of the Australians to take part in the push had about 9,000 casualities and the 2nd Division suffered just as much.  For the few days we were in it, it was hell on earth, practically no sleep, little to eat and shells of all sorts and all sizes being pelted at us day and night.  Dead and wounded lay on all sides and there was blood everywhere, in one part of the trench where there had been hand to hand fighting, we noticed among the dead an Australian, his hands gripping a German by the throat while the latter had his arms around the other&rsquo;s body &emsp; both were dead, had been killed by a bomb while struggling together.  The many sights we saw would make your blood curdle, they were too awful for me to describe, but there were many heroic incidents which made me feel glad that I am British.  Our bombers for instance did great work.  On the second morning of our stunt the Huns were holding a bit of trench that we wanted and they were very hard to shift, so the officer of the bombers spoke to his men, ""Will we shift them, lads?"",  ""Right ho, sir"" was the answer and they hopped out over the parapet, 20 or 30 of them, in the face of shells and machine gun fire, raced across to the enemy trench and standing there in broad daylight they pelted their bombs with great coolness.  It was a great bit of work and we kept up machine gun fire over their heads during the scrap.  The trench was won, most of the occupants being killed, and of course, our chaps suffered too.  This is only one little incident, the stretcher bearers toiled and sweated for all they were worth under very severe conditions. Our Coy had sixteen guns in action and the only one we lost was the one I was on &emsp; the Hun&rsquo;s artillery had the range to a T and lobbed over gas shells, tear shells, high explosives, shrapnel, etc. from 18 pounders to 9.2 inch.  It was ""No Bon"".  Our team consisted of 5 men and 1 officer.  The officer and 1 man were wounded and 2 men killed.  It was hard luck but such things are to be expected.

Well anyway, dear Herb, all that is over now and we are satisfied that things can be no worse.  The 4th Division are now in and we may relieve them soon.  At present we are at the village of Bonneville waiting for orders, having a quiet time so &emsp; what&rsquo;s the use of worrying as long as we are in good health..  I hope all at home are in the best of health also, yourself and the girls. I have written to Mrs. McCathie, you will hear the news from her not included here.  I will also be writing home again soon.  Fancy you saying &emsp; ""Vouley-vous promenade, mademoiselle.""  She might reply, ""Oui monsier, merci.""  Tres Bon, eh?  I hope Will Raymond and family are well, give them my love and also remember me to any other friends.  Could you let me know if home affairs are settled up yet and how Mother is and the girls.  I am afraid many letters have miscarried. 

Well, hooray old chap, love to all from,

Ray.

We are going to win.  D.R.B."
